There are 6 principles( Edward Tufts: Beautiful Evidence) talks about when describing Exploratory data .
1st Principle: Show comparisons  "comparsions to what?"
2nd Principle: Show Causality, mechanism, explanations,systematic Structure
3rd Principle: Show multivariate data
4th Principle: Integration of evidence "Data graphics should make use of many modes of data presentation"
Principle 4: Integration of evidence
       Completely integrate words, numbers, images, diagrams
      Data graphics should make use of many modes of data presentation
     Don't let the tool drive the analysis
Principle 5: Describe and document the evidence with appropriate labels, scales, sources, etc.
- A data graphic should tell a complete story that is credible
Principle 6: content is King
   Analytical presentations ultimately stand or fall depending on the quality, relevance, and
integrity of their content
Exploratory graphs serve mostly the same functions as graphs. They help us find patterns
 in data and understand its properties. They suggest modeling strategies and help to | debug analyses. 
 We DON'T use exploratory graphs to communicate results

 ggplot2 is an R package/phenomenon for data visualization. It was created by Hadley Wickham,
 
 library(ggplot2)
library(datasets)
data(mpg)
qplot(displ, hwy, data = mpg)
For a Histogram you need to only specify X- variable:-Histogram with the qplot function, by only specifying a single variable
qplot(displ, data = mpg,fill= drv)
For a Geom-
qplot(model, hwy, data = mpg,geom=c("point","smooth"))
Another feature of ggplot is called facets, and facets are like panels in lattice. The idea is that you can create
separate plots, which indicate, again, subsets of your data indicated by a factor variable. 
Facets are a way to create multiple panels of plots based on the levels of categorical variable. 
The facets argument expects a formula type of input, with a∼separating the left hand side variable and the right hand side variable.
The left hand side variable indicates how the rows of the panels should be divided and the right hand side variable indicates
how thecolumnsofthepanelsshouldbedivided.
binwidth:The width of the bins. 
So when you build a plot with ggplot2, the basic idea if you're not going to be using the qplot function, you'll want to kind
of build it piece by piece. You can kind of think of it as the artist's palette model.
So this is the, similar to the model in the base plotting system but where you kind of start with something,
and you kind of add things piece by piece. So unlike the lattice system, where you 
had to have the whole plot is encoded in a single function call, you can start with a single call to, you can start 
with a ggplot function

summary(pollution$pm25)
   Min. 1st Qu.  Median    Mean 3rd Qu.    Max. 
  3.383   8.549  10.047   9.836  11.356  18.441 
  quantile(ppm)
       0%       25%       50%       75%      100% 
 3.382626  8.548799 10.046697 11.356012 18.440731 
 boxplot(ppm,col="blue")
 abline "adds one or more straight lines through the current plot.
dev.off()

